---
display_to_feed: false
layout:     post
title:      Design and Comparative Analysis of 1D Hopping Robots
author:     Noel Csomay-Shanklin
tags: 		  Research
category:   research
---

## Overview
Design and control of 2 variants of a 1D hopping robot.

## Abstract
Hopping is a highly dynamic motion requiring
precise input over brief moments of ground contact in order
to achieve desired performance. While this problem has been
approached from multiple perspectives, this work provides a
comparative analysis of two robot models. The first model uses
an actuator to store energy in a spring and release it during
the ground phase, while the second uses an actuator to move
an additional mass vertically to generate force on the spring. In
the first model, analytic expressions are used to find the desired
controllers, while trajectory optimization is used in the latter.
Orbital stability of each model under the conditions of uncertain
damping and poor estimation of the hop height is examined. To
this end, Poincar´e analysis is used to give a metric of stability
in the presence of different initial conditions and parameter
uncertainty. Simulations show that the first model converges
quickly to a point near the desired height determined by the
amount of uncertain damping present. The second model is less
robust to uncertainty, but is be made to converge to a desired
height with the addition of PD control around the optimal
trajectory. This robustness is improved with different gains in
the controller. In experiments performed on hardware for the
second model, stability is observed through convergence to a
periodic orbit within several hops.

## Paper
<iframe style="width:100%" height="1000px" src="https://noelc-s.github.io/website/papers/ambrose2019design.pdf" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
