---
display_to_feed: true
layout:     post
title:      "Quadrupedal Robotic Walking on Sloped Terrains via Exact Decomposition into Coupled Bipedal Robots"
author:     Noel Csomay-Shanklin
tags: 		  Research
category:   research
---

## Overview
Performing trajectory optimization for a quadruped on sloped terrains via two coupled bipedal robots.

## Abstract
Can we design motion primitives for complex
legged systems uniformly for different terrain types without
neglecting modeling details? This paper presents a method
for rapidly generating quadrupedal locomotion on sloped
terrains—from modeling to gait generation, to hardware
demonstration. At the core of this approach is the observation
that a quadrupedal robot can be exactly decomposed into
coupled bipedal robots. Formally, this is represented through
the framework of coupled control systems, wherein isolated
subsystems interact through coupling constraints. We demon-
strate this concept in the context of quadrupeds and use it to
reduce the gait planning problem for uneven terrains to bipedal
walking generation via hybrid zero dynamics. This reduction
method allows for the formulation of a nonlinear optimization
problem that leverages low-dimensional bipedal representations
to generate dynamic walking gaits on slopes for the full-order
quadrupedal robot dynamics. The result is the ability to rapidly
generate quadrupedal walking gaits on a variety of slopes.
We demonstrate these walking behaviors on the Vision 60
quadrupedal robot; in simulation, via walking on a range
of sloped terrains of 13◦, 15◦, 20◦, 25◦, and, experimentally,
through the successful locomotion of 13◦ and 20◦ ∼ 25◦ sloped
outdoor grasslands.

## Paper
<iframe style="width:100%" height="1000px" src="https://noelc-s.github.io/website/papers/ma20203.pdf" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
