---
display_to_feed: true
layout:     post
title:      "Coupled Control Systems: Periodic Orbit Generation with Application to Quadrupedal Locomotion"
author:     Noel Csomay-Shanklin
tags: 		  Research
category:   research
---

## Overview
Decomposing trajectory optimization for gaits on a quadrupedal robot to that of two bipedal robots.

## Abstract
A robotic system can be viewed as a collection
of lower-dimensional systems that are coupled via reaction
forces (Lagrange multipliers) enforcing holonomic constraints.
Inspired by this viewpoint, this paper presents a novel formula-
tion for nonlinear control systems that are subject to coupling
constraints via virtual “coupling” inputs that abstractly play
the role of Lagrange multipliers. The main contribution of this
paper is a process—mirroring solving for Lagrange multipliers
in robotic systems—wherein we isolate subsystems free of cou-
pling constraints that provably encode the full-order dynamics
of the coupled control system from which it was derived.
This dimension reduction is leveraged in the formulation of
a nonlinear optimization problem for the isolated subsystem
that yields periodic orbits for the full-order coupled system. We
consider the application of these ideas to robotic systems, which
can be decomposed into subsystems. Specifically, we view a
quadruped as a coupled control system consisting of two bipedal
robots, wherein applying the framework developed allows
for gaits (periodic orbits) to be generated for the individual
biped yielding a gait for the full-order quadruped. This is
demonstrated through walking experiments of a quadrupedal
robot in simulation and on rough terrains.

## Paper
<iframe style="width:100%" height="1000px" src="https://noelc-s.github.io/website/papers/ma20202.pdf" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
