---
display_to_feed: true
layout:     post
title:      "Preference-Based Learning for User-Guided HZD Gait Generation on Bipedal Walking Robots"
author:     Noel Csomay-Shanklin
tags: 		  Research
category:   research
---

## Overview
Using preference-based learning to guide the constraint set of trajectory optimization.

## Abstract
This paper presents a framework that leverages
both control theory and machine learning to obtain stable
and robust bipedal locomotion without the need for manual
parameter tuning. Traditionally, gaits are generated through
trajectory optimization methods and then realized experimen-
tally — a process that often requires extensive tuning due to
differences between the models and hardware. In this work,
the process of gait realization via hybrid zero dynamics (HZD)
based optimization is formally combined with preference-based
learning to systematically realize dynamically stable walking.
Importantly, this learning approach does not require a care-
fully constructed reward function, but instead utilizes human
pairwise preferences. The power of the proposed approach
is demonstrated through two experiments on a planar biped
AMBER-3M: the first with rigid point-feet, and the second
with induced model uncertainty through the addition of springs
where the added compliance was not accounted for in the
gait generation or in the controller. In both experiments,
the framework achieves stable, robust, efficient, and natural
walking in fewer than 50 iterations with no reliance on a
simulation environment. These results demonstrate a promising
step in the unification of control theory and learning.

## Paper
<iframe style="width:100%" height="1000px" src="https://noelc-s.github.io/website/papers/tucker2021.pdf" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
