---
display_to_feed: false
layout:     post
title:      "Learning Controller Gains on Bipedal Walking Robots via User Preferences"
author:     Noel Csomay-Shanklin
tags: 		  Research
category:   research
---

## Overview
Using preference-based learning to explore the space of controller gain tuning.

## Abstract
Experimental demonstration of complex robotic
behaviors relies heavily on finding the correct controller gains.
This painstaking process is often completed by a domain
expert, requiring deep knowledge of the relationship between
parameter values and the resulting behavior of the system. Even
when such knowledge is possessed, it can take significant effort
to navigate the nonintuitive landscape of possible parameter
combinations. In this work, we explore the extent to which
preference-based learning can be used to optimize controller
gains online by repeatedly querying the user for their prefer-
ences. This general methodology is applied to two variants of
control Lyapunov function based nonlinear controllers framed
as quadratic programs, which provide theoretical guarantees
but are challenging to realize in practice. These controllers are
successfully demonstrated both on the planar underactuated
biped, AMBER, and on the 3D underactuated biped, Cassie.
We experimentally evaluate the performance of the learned
controllers and show that the proposed method is repeatably
able to learn gains that yield stable and robust locomotion.

## Paper
<iframe style="width:100%" height="1000px" src="https://noelc-s.github.io/website/papers/gains.pdf" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
